Hi, I'm @kafonek (Matt Kafonek) :wave:

My first career (2003-2021) was as a domain expert in the intelligence community. I fell into it as a young enlisted [USAF](https://www.airforce.com/) Arabic linguist, and kept working in the field for another decade and a half as a technical analyst bridging collections and operations across multiple three-letter agencies at a uniquely wonderful contractor Virginia Systems and Technologies (VaST, since acquired by [Altamira](https://www.altamiracorp.com/)). I began learning Python around 2010 to help automate some day-to-day tasks. As I shared what I learned with colleagues, using tools like [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org), I developed a passion for empowering domain experts. One part of that is providing "no-code" / "low-code" tools. An underserved need is giving them the right opportunity to begin learning and using code themselves. A neat boast that is impossible to verify without a security clearance is that I have several of the most-starred Github repositories on the "high-side" network.

My second career as a software engineer (2021-present) started with Noteable (since acquired by [Confluent](https://www.confluent.io/)), a Jupyter Notebook SaaS startup that had raised Series A when I joined. I learned countless valuable lessons developing and deploying features for a rapidly changing user-facing product. When OpenAI first announced its plugin store, later rebranded to custom GPTs, we were first-to-market with a plugin that let ChatGPT make API calls to our platform to create, edit, and execute Notebook code including seeing results or errors. It was an MCP and Agent experience before those terms were popular. As it turns out, increasing your user subscriptions by orders of magnitude week over week does not automatically pivot your business model, which is a lesson in and of itself. Noteable "exited successfully" but it's easy to think about what could have been.

Running out of runway ironically lead me to where I'm at now: [Runway](https://runwayml.com/). I applied because I wanted to see what the process of training and productionizing a foundational model looked like. In hindsight, I'm shocked I got in. I often feel like the dumbest person in the room. It's been a richly rewarding experience and I've carved out a niche as something of a Backend Infrastructure generalist. I unblock Research as a job, which can mean everything from introducing and maintaining `kueue` for workload prioritization in the training cluster to administering the cloud-compute-based IDE everyone uses to writing internal CLI's for cluster capacity analysis to system design for massive distributed pre-processing jobs and data lineage.

Speaking of writing internal tools, I helped bring Rust to Runway both in Python tooling like `uv` and creating pure-Rust repos. Python was my first love, but Rust is stealing the spotlight. I believe that the future of Python excellence is being able to read underlying Rust code, and would make a bet that the large-scale data processing story (much less AI/ML training and inference in general) will lean into Rust in the next decade. I'm overjoyed that I write about 50/50 Rust and Python at Runway with some full stack vibe coding sprinkled in for prototypes or visualizations (not counting dockerfile/CI/helm/terraform infra work). 

Outside of work I spend my time solving programming puzzles, playing video games, rock climbing with my wife, being an adult leader for Cub Scouts, and taking care of our two young boys.
